# WinSimple V1.4

## About Winsimple

#### Winsimple is an abstraction layer to win32 functions and api. It places all of the terribly messy and out-of-date api under the hood so that you can get usefulness from winapi while not being forced to have extensive knowledge in it.    

## Linking WinSimple

### Since Winsimple is a winapi based graphics library, you must link the following windows libraries. 

**```-lgdi32 -luser32 -lole32 -lmsimg32 -lkernel32 -lwinmm -lcomctl32 -lgdiplus```**

### Now you can test your setup using this program.
```
#include "winsimple.h"


int main()
{
        //Create the window
	ws::Window window(960,540,"My WinSimple Window!");
	//Create a Circle
        ws::Radial circle;
        //Set the fill color
	circle.setFillColor(Gdiplus::Color(255,100,200,100));
        //Set the position
	circle.setPosition(960/2,540/2);
        //Set the radius
	circle.setRadius(200);

        //Start the game loop and run window.isOpen() to keep it open.
	while(window.isOpen())
	{
                //Clear the canvas
	        window.clear();
                //Draw the circle to the canvas.
		window.draw(circle);
                //Display the canvas
		window.display();
	}
	return 0;
}
```

## Practices

- Since WinSimple has a few members of same name as Win32 members, it is best practice and likely necessary that you explicitely use the "ws" namespace when accessing it's members.
  


# Structures

## Window

### Constructor Parameters:

#### Example: 
```
ws::Window window(960,540,"window name",WS_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW | WS_VSCROLL);
```
#### Minimal Example: 
```
ws::Window window(960,540,"");
```
##### int width,
- Sets the initial width
##### int height,
- Sets the initial height
##### std::string title,
- Sets the initial title 
##### DWORD style = WS_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW,
- Sets the initial window style. Default is WS_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW. Constructor always includes WS_CLIPCHILDREN.
##### DWORD exStyle = 0)
- Sets the initial extended window style. Default is 0(none). Constructor always includes WS_EX_COMPOSITED. 
### Public Members:
##### HWND hwnd
- The win32 handle to the window. You can use this to modify the window through winapi.
##### int x, y, width, height
- The position of the window and it's size.
##### ws::View view
- An instance of the class ws::View which is used to define where something is drawn to window based on where the camera is pointing.
##### ws::Texture backBuffer
- The canvas texture that ws::Window draws everything to before drawing the canvas on the window.
##### Gdiplus::Graphics* canvas
- The GDI+ object that handles draw operations to the backBuffer texture.


### About DWORD styles

#### DWORD's are useful in controlling the styles of the winsimple window. I suggest you take a look at the microsoft documentation for window Styles here:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/winmsg/window-styles
#### You should also look at the docs for extended styles.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/winmsg/extended-window-styles



### Functions

#### void setView(ws::View &v)
- Sets the view that the window uses. 
#### void setLayerAfter(HWND lastHwnd)
- Sets the Z position of the window so that it is overlapping the specified window.
#### void setFullScreen(bool fullScreen)
- Sets the window style as fullscreen or not fullscreen. The window titlebar and edge will not been seen while in fullscreen.
#### void toggleFullScreen()
- Toggles fullscreen between on and off.
#### bool getFullScreen()
- Returns boolean status of fullscreen.
#### bool isOpen()
- Use this in a while loop to cause the window the stay open and gather event messages.
#### bool pollEvent(MSG &message)
- Grabs next untested event for your inspection.
#### void clear(Gdiplus::Color color = Gdiplus::Color(255,0,0,0)) 
- Clears the window canvas
#### void draw(ws::Drawable &draw)
- Passes a drawable object(sprite,poly,radial,etc.) and draws it to the window canvas.
#### void display() 
- Updates the window to display the canvas.

## Clipboard

#### It isn't really necessary to create a new clipboard object since there is already a global declaration called "clipboard". 
### Example: 
```
clipboard.copyTexture(texture);
```
```
clipboard.pasteTexture(texture);
```
### Functions

#### bool copyText(const std::string& str) 
- Copies the text provided into Microsoft Window's clipboard.
#### std::string pasteText() 
- Pastes the text contents of the Microsoft Windows Clipboard into your program.
#### bool copyTexture(ws::Texture &texture, ws::IntRect rect = {0,0,0,0}) 
- Copies a texture(image) from your program to the Microsoft Windows Clipboard. 
Passing a rect determines what section of the texture is sent. 

#### ws::Texture pasteTexture(ws::IntRect rect = {0,0,0,0}) 
- Receives a texture(image) from the Microsoft Windows Clipboard. Passing in a rect determines what section of the texture is received.

#### bool hasText()
- Checks if a text value exists in the microsoft windows clipboard.

#### bool hasTexture()
- Checks if an image value exists in the microsoft windows clipboard.

#### void clear()
- Clears all data in the microsoft windows clipboard.


